[THEME MUSIC]
DAVID WILCOCK: Welcome to
another episode of Disclosure.
I'm your host, David Wilcock.
And we are back and running
with Rupert Sheldrake,
truly one of the
greatest scientific minds
in our modern era.
I put him right up there with
Copernicus, Aristotle, Galileo,
Einstein, as I said at the
beginning of the interview.
Now, in this
episode, we're going
to go through a whole bunch of
amazing scientific experiments
that are utterly mind-blowing.
We're going to talk about
things like how people naturally
learn Morse code better if it's
the original Morse code rather
than a fake Morse code; how
people learn to type better,
even if they've
never typed before,
using the old fashioned
QWERTY keyboard.
We're going to talk about
a lot of that stuff.
But what really was
the most interesting
for me is when we
get into chemicals.
This is something that
I actually hadn't really
been familiar with,
because I hadn't
read Sheldrake's book before,
where this was discussed.
And it's a very paradoxical
type of discussion.
The idea here is that if
we're in a living universe,
then the actual physical stuff
that's not conventionally
seen as alive is ultimately
conscious in its own way
and is interconnected
energetically.
So this is going to be a little
confusing for some people.
But what we're
going to talk about
is how Sheldrake is describing
chemical companies that
are putting together and mixing
two chemicals that have never
necessarily been mixed before.
And if those chemicals
haven't been mixed before,
they don't know how
to make crystals.
But then surprisingly,
once the crystal
is formed, which in some cases
can take many months, all
of a sudden over a
short period of time
if you do this with
several batches,
suddenly all over the
world the crystals
start to form more easily.
And you're even going to hear
about an AIDS treatment called
ritonavir and how
once that drug started
to develop an
alternative branch,
the original version could
no longer be manufactured.
Every laboratory
around the world
was only able to produce
this weird strain of it that
did not have the effectiveness
that the drug needed.
The pharmaceutical companies
could not dial it back.
They lost billions of dollars.
So this is very, very
fascinating stuff.
Check it out.
This is undoubtedly some
of the greatest information
that I've ever gotten on
camera, and I'm really
stoked for you to see it.
DAVID: I think the guy that was
working on this, his last name
starts with an M. Morse code.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
DAVID: People who've
never seen it before--
SHELDRAKE: Yes
DAVID: If you give
them a fake Morse code
to learn as opposed to the
real one, what happens?
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Arden Mahlberg.
DAVID: Mahlberg, right.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
He did this as a thesis.
I think it was at the California
Institute of Integral Studies.
And he took people who
didn't know Morse code at all
and he got them to learn regular
Morse code for certain letters.
And then he made up
this new Morse code,
similar numbers of
dots and dashes,
but kind of fake Morse code.
And the idea was the regular
one would be easier to learn,
because millions of people
have already learned it.
And that's just what he found.
So that's another test.
And that would be an
example of tapping
into a kind of
collective memory.
Hardly anyone learns
Morse code today.
But the fact is millions
of people have learned it.
And this general
principle, you see,
is actually rather important
in industrial design.
I mean, there have been
many attempts of people
to reform the
typewriter keyboard,
the computer keyboard.
As you know, the model we
all kind is the QWERTY one,
Q-W-E-R-T-Y. That was invented
in the 1860s by the Remington
Typewriter Corporation
in the United States.
And those old-style
typewriters, bars
come up when you press keys.
If you had letters
that frequently
came next to each other,
like Q and U, for example,
these bars would get jammed.
So they had to design it so
that you wouldn't very often get
adjacent letters.
You'd never get Q to
W, you see, so Q-W.
And it was designed
so that you'd
get the minimum
number of jamming,
so it was done for purely
mechanical reasons.
And many people in
the 1970s and '80s
and '90s thought, you know,
this is completely irrational,
unnecessary.
Let's have rational
typewriter design,
based on rational frequencies
of numbers, the way fingers
work, etc.
And they worked studying things.
They kept coming up with new
improved typewriter designs.
And when they tested them
out on people who hadn't yet
learned to type and weren't
yet familiar with anything,
they found that
the QWERTY design
was much easier
for people to learn
than these new rational,
improved designs.
And that's a perfect example,
you see, of morphic resonance.
You've got a kind
of habit that's
grown up of people learning
that kind of typing.
And even though with modern
computers things jamming,
I mean mechanical things jamming
like in Remington typewriters
in the 19th century, is
completely irrelevant,
and yet this is a built-in habit
that's got sort of fossilized
into the state-of-the-art
technologies as QWERTY-type
keyboard.
DAVID: Well, there's
another study that involves
Japanese nursery rhymes.
I'm sure you're
familiar with that one.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Yes.
DAVID: So let's talk
a little about that.
SHELDRAKE: Well,
this was done by--
when my hypothesis
of morphic resonance
first came out in 1981, the
British magazine New Scientist
ran a contest for the
best ideas for testing it.
And they had a
prize, a cash prize.
And the winning entry
suggested getting people
to learn foreign
nursery rhymes compared
with a similar rhyme with
similar rhythm and meter
on the grounds the real one
would be easier to learn.
So I actually did
this experiment.
I got one of Japan's
leading poets
to compose a fake
nursery rhyme that
had a similar words and rhythm
to a genuine nursery rhyme.
And then we got people
in the US and in Britain
to learn it phonetically
by repeating it.
And the prediction
was the genuine one
would be easier to
learn than the fake one.
And indeed, that's
what happened.
DAVID: And the kids that
had learned this nursery
rhyme, it's like millions
of people, right?
SHELDRAKE: Millions of people.
I mean, it's like
English nursery rhymes.
I mean, millions of
people learn these.
DAVID: So this means
that even if you
don't speak the
language, you're still
going to phonetically remember
the real nursery rhyme better
than the fake one.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
And I think that
what's important
here is this helps to explain
why children can learn
languages in the first place.
I think a large part
of regular learning
is by morphic resonance.
Babies can learn language
astonishingly fast.
Noam Chomsky, the linguist,
said that the fact that children
can learn language
so quickly shows
that there must
be some inherited
language-learning ability,
because it is far too
quick to explain in terms
of stimulus-response type
psychology.
So Chomsky came up
with a theory there
must be genes for
language and we must all
inherit these genes.
But because Chinese
children could learn English
if they were adopted
by an English family
just as easily as
English children,
it had to be genes
for universal grammar.
That was his theory, because
he assumed it must be in genes.
But you see, the data shows
that kids learn very quickly.
There's something inherited
about where they learn it.
There's no evidence for the
existence of universal grammar
genes.
But morphic resonance would
explain this much more easily.
As soon as you start learning
a language and start trying
to say it, you tune in by
morphic resonance to people
who've spoken it before.
This would lead to
facilitated learning.
The same would be true
of learning any skill,
like riding a bicycle
or driving a car
or windsurfing or surfboarding.
And in fact, all
these new skills,
there's been a tremendous
invention of new skills
in recent decades in various
sports, like surfboarding,
windsurfing, snowboarding.
I mean, no one did these things
before, and they're new skills.
And people who work in those
areas, almost all of them
are convinced it's
much easier for kids
to learn these things now
than it was originally.
DAVID: I'm sure you're also
familiar with the Hebrew words
study, where some of
the most prevalent words
in the Old Testament were
taken and then compared
with Hebrew words that didn't
have that type of prevalence.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Well, that was-- actually,
that was done by Professor Gary
Schwartz, who is now at Arizona,
but at that time was professor
of psychology at Yale.
And there was a prize
offered by the Tarrytown
Foundation in New York.
Following the New
Scientist competition,
which was for ideas
for experiments,
the Tarrytown Foundation
offered a $10,000 prize
for the best actual experiment.
And that was won by
Professor Schwartz at Yale.
And that was his
experiment, that what he did
was asked people--
showed people real words from
the Old Testament, common words
and rare words, compared
with anagrams of real words.
For example, in English a
real word is cat, C-A-T.
But T-C-A contains
the same letters,
but it's not a real word.
And his prediction
was that when people
were asked to look
at these words,
and people who
didn't know Hebrew
and had never learned it, that
the real words would somehow
seem more familiar.
He asked people to guess
the meaning of the words,
and then asked them how accurate
they thought their guess was.
Now, when people
did guess correctly,
he eliminated them
on the grounds
they might have
known Hebrew, they
might have seen it or heard
it as a child or something.
So he only took people
who guessed wrongly,
to be very conservative.
And then when he looked
at the confidence
they felt in their guess, he
found that with the real words,
even though the guess was false,
they felt much more confident.
Somehow there was something
familiar about those words that
made him feel more confident.
And they were more confident
with the frequent words
from the Old Testament
than the rare words
from the Old Testament.
This was a significant
statistical effect.
So that was another one of these
morphic resonance experiments.
DAVID: The story about
blue tits, these birds that
eventually learned
how to drink cream out
of the milk bottles
that were left
in front of people's
houses, tell us
a little bit about that one.
SHELDRAKE: Well,
in Britain, we've
always had a system where
fresh milk's delivered
to the doorstep everyday.
It's still going on.
We still have fresh
milk delivered
to our house in London.
They put it on the doorstep.
And they originally
had cardboard lids.
Now they have metal foil lids.
And there's a bottle, and
then they collect the bottles
when they deliver the milk,
wash them, and use them again.
It's a very good system.
In the 1920s, people started
noticing in Southampton
in the south of England
that when they went out
to collect their
milk, the cream had
gone from the top of the milk.
And when people
looked carefully,
they found that blue tits, which
are what are called chickadees
here in the United States, were
tearing off these cardboard
tops and drinking the cream
out of the top of the bottles.
They were getting a supply
of free cream every morning.
And the spread of this habit
was documented by amateur bird
watchers all over Britain.
And they found that the spread
got quicker and quicker.
It spread, but it spread
often jumping many miles,
far further than blue tits fly.
They're home-loving birds.
And it seemed to
be accelerating.
And the professor of zoology at
Oxford University, Sir Alister
Hardy, was so impressed
by this he thought
there must be something
like telepathy going on
between the blue tits.
And it was carefully documented
by scientists at Cambridge,
discussed by
professors at Oxford,
and showed this accelerated
rate of learning.
Now, I think that
rather than telepathy,
it's morphic resonance,
that you'd expect something
like this.
The most interesting
data came from Holland,
because in Holland when the
Germans invaded and occupied
Holland, milk delivery stopped.
And they didn't start until
several years after the war.
Blue tits only live
two or three years,
so there wouldn't have been
any surviving blue tits that
remembered the golden
age of free cream.
And when they resumed milk
deliveries in Holland,
within months all over Holland
blue tits were stealing milk.
DAVID: Well, the blue tits must
be writing books and handing it
to their children.
I mean, you can't
explain it skeptically.
SHELDRAKE: No.
Well, the interesting
coda to that story
is that now blue tits have
stopped doing it in Britain.
We don't have any more problems.
And the reason is that,
like many other people,
we've switched to
semi-skim milk, where
there's no cream on the
top of the bottle to steal.
And it's not worth the effort.
Blue tits have sort
of quit doing it.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVID: Now, I know that
you've also done research
with termite mounds.
And in this case,
you're putting--
it's like a metal plate in
the middle of a termite mound
so that they can't--
the ones above the
metal plate are
sealed from the
ones on the bottom,
but they still coordinate
activity somehow?
SHELDRAKE: Well, yes.
This experiment, I
describe this in my book
"Seven Experiments
That Could Change
the World, A
Do-It-Yourself Guide
to Revolutionary Science."
My aim in that book was to find
paradigm-changing experiments
that could be done on a
budget of $10 or less,
because it's very
hard to get grants
for unconventional science.
DAVID: Sure.
SHELDRAKE: So I thought
one way around that
was to make it so inexpensive
that you don't need a grant.
And one of those seven
experiments is the termite one.
What I was basing it on was some
research done in South Africa
by Eugene Marais, who was
a South African biologist.
And he found that if you
damage a termites' nest,
then they repair the damage.
And it's a mystery as to
how they built these mounds
in the first place,
because termites are blind,
so it's not as if they
can see these structures.
And they can communicate
by smell and by tapping,
but it's hardly likely that
elaborate architecture could
be the plan in the first place
of this, how that could be
done by smell and by tapping.
I think it's because of what I
call the morphic field, a kind
of invisible blueprint that
the termites are following
that's part of their
collective memory.
Anyway, what Marais found was
that if you damage the nest,
they repair it.
But then, as you say,
you put in a metal sheet
down the middle, damaged
it on both sides,
and then the termite set
to work repairing it.
And they repaired
it in such a way
that the arches and the
tunnels and the outer wall
sort of matched up perfectly
when you removed the metal
sheet, which would have
prevented any smell or contact
between the termites.
So as if they were responding
to some invisible plan, which
he thought was the mind,
the collective mind
I would call it.
DAVID: Could they walk
around the edge of the sheet?
SHELDRAKE: No, they couldn't.
It went right outside the nest.
The nest's here, and
the sheet's way outside.
DAVID: And they have to
stay inside the mound.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
They have to stay
inside the mound.
They don't walk outside.
DAVID: OK.
SHELDRAKE: Termites are always
in tunnels or covered up.
So my proposed experiment
was to repeat that.
And unfortunately, that's
one of the experiments
that hasn't been repeated.
I tried repeating it myself
when I was in Brazil.
I think I'm probably
the only person
in the world who regrets the
fact there aren't any termite's
in Britain.
[LAUGHTER]
So I happened to be
in Brazil for a while.
So I did it with
termite's there.
But unfortunately,
it was a species
that doesn't repair
damage, or at least
didn't repair it in this
experiment, a completely
different species from
the one Marais worked
with in South Africa.
So that still remains
on the to-do list.
And I can't do it
myself, because I
don't live in the tropics.
But that's one of
the experiments
that it could be done with ants.
I also propose a similar
experiment with ants,
hasn't been done yet.
There are many, many
possible experiments
that haven't been done yet.
But that one was already done.
And what I was
proposing is simply
a repeat of what Marais did.
DAVID: This phantom limb
pain, is that similar
to-- does that fit in
with your theories?
SHELDRAKE: It does, yes.
You see, I think that the body
is shaped by invisible plans,
the morphogenetic
fields, which themselves
have a kind of memory
given by morphic resonance.
Now normally, the field of
my arm and the physical arm
are closely linked.
When I move my arm around,
the field within and around it
moves with it, like
when you have a magnet.
You move the magnet around.
The magnetic field is around
the magnets and in the magnet,
it moves with the magnet.
So it's hard to examine the
fields just by themselves,
because they're always linked
with the physical body.
Except when you have an
amputation of an arm or a leg,
people have phantom
arms or legs.
It feels as if the arm
or leg's still there.
They can move them around.
They can even push them
through solid objects.
But because they're phantoms,
they go through a solid object.
I think what they're
experiencing there is
the field of the missing limb.
Now in the case of
newts, if you cut the arm
off a newt, or a
leg off a newt, it
will regenerate a whole limb.
And I think the
morphogenetic field is what's
the basis of that process.
Now, in the humans, we
don't regenerate limbs,
but I think the field is still
there, and people feel it.
The standard
scientific explanation
is that you experience all
your body inside your brain.
I'm saying no, it's not all
inside the brain at all.
The field of the limb is
what you're experiencing.
And the phantom limb,
the field of the limb
is right where it seems to be.
So one of the experiments
I propose in the "Seven
Experiments" book is to
see if you can detect
the field of a missing limb.
And how we do this
experiment is we
find people who have had
amputations of their arms.
I was working with
ex-servicemen, former British
soldiers who had lost limbs
in battle and had amputations.
And we did it just in a
regular room with a doorway.
We mark out six regions on the
door, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, on both
sides of the door.
So we've got six panels.
And on one side of the
door, my research assistant
throws a dice to get a random
number between 1 and 6,
say it's number 2.
Then we ask the amputee
to push his phantom arm
through panel number 2.
So now, on this side--
here's the door.
And on this side
of the door we've
got a phantom limb sticking
through one of the panels--
of course, it's invisible--
but not through the others.
And then we recruited
people who say
they're good at subtle
energy medicine or healing.
And one by one, I
asked them in the room.
And I said, OK.
Here's this door.
Here are these six
zones, marked clearly
on the door 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
Please feel them or
do whatever you do,
and tell me where you
think the phantom arm is.
I didn't know myself.
It was done blind.
My assistant was the
other side of the door.
And we found some
of these healers
were right very much
higher than chance,
highly significant
statistically.
So they were somehow able
to feel this missing limb.
Now, that's a really
interesting finding, you see.
And the argument I
got from skeptics
was, well, how do you know
it's not just telepathy?
So-- well, actually,
if we've moved--
DAVID: Just telepathy.
SHELDRAKE: If we've
moved on the debate
to the counter-argument being,
could it be just telepathy,
then that's scientific progress.
So to test for that, in a
new series of experiments--
I haven't done this yet.
But to test for it, you could
have a control where they just
imagine pushing their arm
through, instead of actually
pushing the phantom
arm through and see
if people can pick that up.
DAVID: Right.
There you go.
SHELDRAKE: Anyway,
this is an experiment
that I think if I worked in
subtle energy healing, which
I don't, but if I did, I
think I'd really try and get
this experiment going on a much
larger scale, because I think
it's a really good way of
looking at energy fields,
the fields of the body,
because amputees do
have this unique
situation of having
the field of the missing
limb without the limb.
DAVID: Well, you've also
looked into a standard thing
many people have experienced
where they come home
and it's not a normal
time and their dog or cat
is right there at
the door as soon
as they walk up to the door.
And some people
would say, well, it's
because the animal hears the
sound of the brakes of the car
or something.
So you looked into
this, and how did you
study to see if
animals can figure out
if people are coming home?
SHELDRAKE: Well, first of all,
I collected stories from people.
I have a huge database
with more than 5,000 cases
where people tell
me about things
they've noticed with their dogs
or cats or parrots or horses.
And we have hundreds
and hundreds of stories
from people saying
their dog or their cat
knew when they were coming home.
It's not usually where
the dog's just at the door
when they arrive.
It's when someone at home
who knows when they're
coming who actually sees the dog
go to the door, sometimes half
an hour before.
DAVID: OK.
So the dog starts waiting
in front of the door.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Waiting.
And I have more than
50 stories from women
who told me that their husbands
or partners work irregular
hours as plumbers, taxi
drivers, lawyers, etc.
They don't have
regular routine hours.
And they would always
know when their man was
on the way home, because the
dog would go and start waiting
at the door often 15,
20 minutes in advance,
so they'd get his
meal ready so when
he arrived it'd be
hot on the table,
because the dog had told them.
DAVID: Wow.
SHELDRAKE: That kind
of story is common.
DAVID: And it's not like
they come home at 5:30
and the dog senses the light.
SHELDRAKE: No.
No.
Most of these stories
were non-routine.
If it's a routine
time, most people
assume it's just routine.
But it wasn't that.
DAVID: Right.
SHELDRAKE: And also, we had
many, many cases where people
came home by public transport,
bus or subway in New York
or something like that,
where you'd get the subway's
rumbling through all the time.
There would be been
nothing specific
about a particular subway
train that would tell a dog
when their owner was on it.
And yet they do it
with public transport.
So what we did was
set up experiments
where people go at least
five miles from home.
We film the place the dog waits
the whole time they're out
of the house with a
time-coded videotape.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- And we've got to go back now.
Right.
So I've got to--
- We have to get a taxi.
- Right.
- Where can we get a taxi?
- You know where we
were filming before?
- Yeah.
- I noticed there was
a taxi right there,
so we could knock
on the door there.
- Let's go.
[END PLAYBACK]
SHELDRAKE: They wait until
we pick a random time
and tell them to come
home through a cell phone.
And to avoid familiar car
sounds, they come in a taxi
or in another
unfamiliar vehicle.
And then we can see if the
dog goes and starts waiting.
And the dogs I've
worked with most start
waiting as soon as the
person decides to come home,
even before they
got in the taxi.
What they're responding to
is that person's intention.
So now, we've got all this
on film, published papers
in peer-reviewed journals.
And I summarized this research
in my book "Dogs That Know
When Their Owners
Are Coming Home."
DAVID: One of the most
controversial things
you've ever done
is to apply this
to an arena that
goes beyond biology.
And I'd love to hear some
more specifics on this,
because this gets into
the TED conspiracy
and how they suppressed you.
You have data showing that even
chemicals and the way chemicals
react can somehow change by
how we work with the chemicals?
SHELDRAKE: Well, that was
more of a morphic resonance
phenomenon, the chemical one.
It's about when we
crystallize new chemicals.
If you make a new chemical
for the first time,
it's very often hard to
get the crystals to form.
But as soon as people
have made them in one lab,
it gets easier all
round the world.
DAVID: That should be just
a completely discrete,
reactionary process, right?
There should be a
very logical way
to measure if you put
two reactants together
and they have a
reaction, you're dealing
with solid molecules
that should be
able to interface
with each other
and they make little
combinations and twists
and turns, and there should be a
very steady speed that crystals
would arise out of that medium.
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
And yet that's not the case.
With new compounds, you
often wait weeks, months,
sometimes years
before crystals form.
DAVID: Really?
SHELDRAKE: Once they've
formed in one lab,
it's well known
to chemists, they
tend to get easier to form in
other labs around the world.
Chemists usually
assume that this
is because fragments
of previous crystals
get carried from lab
to lab, sometimes
on the clothing of
migrant chemists,
sometimes as invisible dust
particles in the atmosphere.
DAVID: Sure.
SHELDRAKE: And of course,
one phenomenon for this
could be people learning
how to do it better.
That's a kind of standard
explanation for the phenomenon.
But it also happens
with unwanted chemicals.
When the first anti-AIDS
drugs were made,
one of the components
was ritonavir.
It's a chemical
in the AIDS drug.
It was made by
Abbott Laboratories.
And they'd been in
production for a few years.
Everything was going smoothly.
And then a new kind of
crystal of ritonavir
turned up in one factory.
And suddenly, it was
like a new fashion.
Suddenly, these crystals
were everywhere.
They couldn't get back
the original form.
It was like this new
kind come into existence,
and now that somehow
came to predominate.
And they were
certainly not trying
to tell people how to make this.
They were desperately
trying not to make it.
They had to pull this
drug off the market,
because it had a
different solubility.
They lost billions of dollars.
And they had to reformulate
their whole drug
using the new--
they had to actually
sell it in a liquid form,
because they couldn't get
back the original drug.
So these are called
crystal polymorphs,
or polymorphic crystals,
ones with different shapes.
This is a major concern
in the chemical industry.
DAVID: Crystal polymorph
just means a crystal that
has a very complex structure?
SHELDRAKE: No.
It means where you
have alternative forms.
So a common example
is with carbon.
It can exist in the
form of diamond--
that's a carbon crystal--
or in graphite,
like in pencil lead.
And those are both
crystals of carbon,
but they have different shapes.
And so they're polymorphs.
So with a lot of complex
organic chemicals,
they can crystallize one
way and sometimes they
can crystallize another way.
And the cases I'm talking
about, where they first
knew one kind of crystal,
then another kind pops up.
DAVID: So they had an existing
workflow, where you put
these two ingredients together.
You do it this way.
You get this chemical
as the result.
And then all of a
sudden, it starts doing
a different type of crystal.
And that actually took
over all the systems?
SHELDRAKE: Yes.
That's right.
There's several
examples of that.
I describe them in my
book "Morphic Resonance."
And these are well known
in the chemical industry.
And in fact, in drug companies,
they pay a lot of attention
to this, because it has huge
commercial consequences.
DAVID: Is there
any way you could
standardize some categories?
Like, does it work with
acids but not bases?
Is it pH level?
SHELDRAKE: No.
No, no.
It works it seems--
they've tried-- they've
gone to enormous lengths
to try and get back the
original forms if that
was part of the original
drug formulation.
And there's no simple answer.
You know, chemists themselves
who work with crystals
find this all rather
baffling, the way
once something
changes it happens
in other parts of the world.
So I think that's a morphic
resonance phenomenon.
I think morphic
resonance applies
not just to living organisms,
animals and plants and people,
but also to chemicals,
to crystals.
DAVID: What we just learned
here about chemicals
is really groundbreaking
information for me
as well, because I've had
lots and lots of data talking
about this concept
of morphic resonance,
the idea of a
shared consciousness
amongst living things.
But actually for me, this was so
groundbreaking to have the man
himself there in
front of me on camera
and have a dialog showing that
these same principles extend
directly into
physical matter itself
that we normally would
think of as inanimate.
Rupert Sheldrake is really
doing an amazing job here,
but we are definitely not done.
There's much, much
more to discuss
coming up in the next
episode, including
something very interesting.
Rupert Sheldrake has
exposed the skeptics.
As it turns out, the skeptics
are part of an organized crime
ring.
They are not random people.
And so in the next
episode, we're
going to hear
about how there are
skeptic groups in
which they tell you
you don't need to know anything
about the subject at all.
All you do is act very confident
and say that the science has
been discredited.
And so Rupert Sheldrake
has built a website
called Skeptical
About Skeptics, where
he is blowing the
whistle on these people
and exposing the ones who are
giving you the disinformation.
This is all part of
the disclosure process.
We need to know that
we've been lied to,
and we need to understand
what's really going on.
So I want you to join me
next time on Disclosure,
speaking truth to power and
giving power to the truth.
[THEME MUSIC]